Add Flatbuffers doc page (#767)
foxglove/mcap: docs/getting-started/flatbuffers.md

---

> description: Read, write, and visualize MCAP files containing Flatbuffer data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Read, write, and visualize MCAP files containing FlatBuffers data.
```

---

> # Flatbuffers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# FlatBuffers
```

Reviewer: Add link to the official docs somewhere.

Author: added to read and write MCAP. I thought putting it directly under this was might be a little strange?

## Read and write MCAP

> If you're starting from scratch, you can write code that allows you to **write your Flatbuffer data to MCAP files** and subsequently **read your Flatbuffer data from your MCAP files**.

Reviewer: Audit all uses of "FlatBuffers" and use appropriate capitalization and pluralization.

Author: good call 😅

> If you're starting from scratch, you can write code that allows you to **write your Flatbuffer data to MCAP files** and subsequently **read your Flatbuffer data from your MCAP files**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're starting from scratch, you can write code that **writes FlatBuffers data to MCAP files** and subsequently **reads FlatBuffers data from MCAP files**.
```

### Examples

- [TypeScript](https://github.com/foxglove/mcap/tree/main/typescript/examples/flatbufferswriter) - [Writing Foxglove schemas to MCAP file](https://github.com/foxglove/mcap/blob/main/typescript/examples/flatbufferswriter/scripts/main.ts)

## Visualize MCAP

> [Foxglove Studio](https://foxglove.dev/studio) supports playing back local and remote MCAP files containing Flatbuffer data using the `flatbuffer` encoding. Note that in order for Foxglove Studio read flatbuffer data from channels in MCAP files, the binary flatbuffer schema (`.bfbs`) must be passed to `data` when calling `registerSchema` to the channel in order to read those messages. They can be compiled using `flatc -b --schema [...args]`, using the `.fbs` files as input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Foxglove Studio](https://foxglove.dev/studio) supports playing back local and remote MCAP files containing Flatbuffer data using the `flatbuffer` encoding. Note that in order for Foxglove Studio read flatbuffer data from channels in MCAP files, the MCAP Schema record should contain the binary flatbuffer schema (`.bfbs`) content in its `data` field. They can be compiled using `flatc -b --schema [...args]`, using the `.fbs` files as input.
```

Reviewer 2: I know TS is the only tutorial we have around, but outside that context it's better to explain in language-agnostic terms

Reviewer: Should "Schema" be in tick marks, since it refers to a specific entity in the MCAP library?

Reviewer: Also, the "using the `flatbuffer` encoding" part is specific to the MCAP library, but that isn't clear from the sentence (sounds like a Foxglove Studio configuration).

Author: We can link `MCAP Schema Record` to here: https://mcap.dev/specification/index.html#schema-op0x03

---
description: Read, write, and visualize MCAP files containing FlatBuffers data.
---

# FlatBuffers

## Read and write MCAP

If you're starting from scratch, you can write code that allows **writes your FlatBuffers data to MCAP files** and subsequently **reads your FlatBuffers data from your MCAP files**.

See also the [official FlatBuffers docs](https://google.github.io/flatbuffers/) to learn more about reading and writing FlatBuffers.

### Examples

- [TypeScript](https://github.com/foxglove/mcap/tree/main/typescript/examples/flatbufferswriter) - [Writing Foxglove schemas to MCAP file](https://github.com/foxglove/mcap/blob/main/typescript/examples/flatbufferswriter/scripts/main.ts)

## Visualize MCAP

> [Foxglove Studio](https://foxglove.dev/studio) To play back MCAP files containing FlatBuffers-encoded data in Foxglove Studio, be sure the MCAP Channel's `message_encoding` field is set to `flatbuffer`. Note that in order for Foxglove Studio to read flatbuffer data from channels in MCAP files, the [MCAP Schema record](https://mcap.dev/specification/index.html#schema-op0x03) should contain the binary flatbuffer schema (`.bfbs`) content in its `data` field. They can be compiled using `flatc -b --schema [...args]`, using the `.fbs` files as input.

Reviewer 2: May as well link to the canonical place in the appendix where this is specified: https://mcap.dev/specification/appendix.html#flatbuffer_1

---
description: Read, write, and visualize MCAP files containing Flatbuffer data.
---

# Flatbuffers

## Read and write MCAP

If you're starting from scratch, you can write code that allows you to **write your Flatbuffer data to MCAP files** and subsequently **read your Flatbuffer data from your MCAP files**.

### Examples

- [TypeScript](https://github.com/foxglove/mcap/tree/main/typescript/examples/flatbufferswriter) - [Writing Foxglove schemas to MCAP file](https://github.com/foxglove/mcap/blob/main/typescript/examples/flatbufferswriter/scripts/main.ts)

> ## Inspect MCAP

Reviewer 2: need to merge flatbuffer support for MCAP CLI before saying this, as i'm pretty sure it can't `cat --json` for flatbuffer messages.

Author: oh yeah, good callout -- removed
